
# Load Testing Shiny Applications

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/rstudio/shinyloadtest/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rstudio/shinyloadtest/actions)
<!-- badges: end -->

The [`shinyloadtest` package](https://rstudio.github.io/shinyloadtest)
and the accompanying
[`shinycannon`](https://github.com/rstudio/shinycannon) command line
tool make it possible to **load test** deployed Shiny apps. Load testing
helps developers and administrators estimate how many users their
application can support. If an application requires tuning, load testing
and load test result analysis can be used to identify performance
bottlenecks and to guide changes to infrastructure, configuration, or
code.

Scientific load testing helps put to rest the common misconception that
**"**Shiny doesn’t scale". As rstudio::conf(2018) Sean Lopp presented on
[Scaling
Shiny](https://rstudio.com/resources/rstudioconf-2018/scaling-shiny/)
which shows how to to horizontally scale an app to handle tens of
thousands of users.

## Installation

To perform a load test you’ll need two pieces of software:

  - `shinyloadtest` is an R package used to generate recordings and
    analyze results. You should install it on your development machine
    with `install.packages("shinyloadtest")`.
  - `shinycannon` is a command-line used to replay recordings in
    parallel. You can install it on your development machine for
    testing, but for best results we recommend installing it on a
    server, and preferably not the one the application under test is
    also on. See [installation
    instructions](articles/shinycannon.html#installation) for operating
    specific install instructions..

## Quick Start

The process for load testing a Shiny application consists of three
steps:

1.  **Record** a typical user session for the app.
2.  **Replay** the session in parallel, simulating many simultaneous
    users accessing the app.
3.  **Analyze** the results of the load test and determine if the app
    performed well enough.

Rinse and repeat as necessary. Each step is described below.

### Step 1: Recording

Record a session using `shinyloadtest::record_session()`, which takes
the URL of the **deployed** application as an argument:

``` r
shinyloadtest::record_session('https://shinyapp.example.com/')
```

Running the function will open a browser displaying the app. Once open,
interact with the application as a typical user might then close the
browser. After closing the app, a file (`recording.log` by default) will
be created that contains a recording of the session. This recording will
serve as the basis for the load test.

If your application requires authentication, consult the [authentication
article](articles/load-testing-authenticated-apps.html). Also be aware
that [certain Shiny
features](articles/limitations-of-shinyloadtest.html) are not compatible
with shinyloadtest.

### Step 2: Run the Load Test

With the recording in hand, we’re ready to run the load test. The actual
test is conducted outside of R using the `shinycannon` command-line
tool. You can run it using your system’s terminal or console program, or
you can run it from the RStudio terminal tab. A typical run looks like
this:

    shinycannon recording.log https://shinyapp.example.com/ --workers 5 --loaded-duration-minutes 2 --output-dir run1

See [the shinycannon article](articles/shinycannon.html#recording) for
details.

### Step 3: Analyze the Results

Now we can analyse our results by reading the data into
`shinyloadtest::load_runs()` and create a report with
`shinyloadtest_report()`:

``` r
df <- shinyloadtest::load_runs("run1")
shinyloadtest::shinyloadtest_report(df, "run1.html")
```

This self contained html report will be opened in your browser for
inspection. For further analysis explanation, please visit [Analysing
load test logs](articles/analyzing-load-test-logs.html).

![Analysis Example](man/figures/slt_report_screenshot.png)
